Hi, and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be installing psycopg2
in a virtual environment on Windows.
Now you can instal things and create virtual environments
in Windows using the command prompt,
but if you use PyCharm, it's just a little bit easier.
So we're going to cover this method in this course.
The first thing you want to do is
we're gonna go ahead and create a new project, first of all.
And in here, we will see
how we can create a new virtual environment.
Once your project has loaded, once you're in this screen,
you can go ahead and name your project whatever you want.
So in here, I'm gonna call it Databases
but you can call it anything.
Then go ahead and open up the little triangle
with the project interpreter
and then press on New environment using virtualenv.
If you've got pipenv or conda selected here,
make sure you select virtualenv
because the rest of the course uses virtualenv
and it's really the simplest way
to use virtual environments.
Then select whichever location you want
for your virtual environment.
Commonly these virtual environments
are either in the same folder as the project
or somewhere nearby, but they can be anywhere you want.
I'm going to leave it inside my project.
As the base interpreter, select the version of Python
you've got installed, and then don't check
either of these two.
Just press Create and you will be good to go
as soon as this loads.
So once your project has been created
and your virtual environment has been created as well,
notice that this virtual environment does not have
psycopg2 installed.
Even though we have psycopg2 installed
on our system installation,
the virtual environment is a completely fresh installation,
so it doesn't have any of the libraries
that were installed in the system.
We must go ahead and instal them, and using PyCharm,
that is even simpler than using the command prompt.
So go ahead and go to File and then Settings.
I couldn't find that one there.
Then go to your project and click on Project interpreter,
and here you can go the libraries that are installed
in your virtual environment.
You've got pip and setup tools.
These two come with the virtual environment.
Don't delete them.
But you can go ahead and press the plus icon.
In here, type psycopg2.
And important, select psycopg2.
Don't go anywhere else.
I believe psycopg2 binary is a new project
that they've started to make things a little bit easier,
but for now, stick with psycopg2
and don't try to instal anything else,
and then just press Instal Package.
Now it'll begin installing, and once that's done, that's it.
You don't have to do anything else.
So substantially simpler
than going through the command prompt.
Particularly, working with environments
in your command prompt can be a little bit tricky
if you are not sure exactly how to go about it.
So just verify that psycopg2 is indeed installed here.
You can see it there, and that's it.
That's all you have to do.
Whenever you run this project from within PyCharm,
whenever you create any Python files
and run them inside PyCharm,
PyCharm will use that virtual environment
that will have psycopg2 installed.
As always, if you have any issues,
ask away in the course Q&A, and that's it, really.
So you don't have to do anything else on Windows
to get started, and I'll see you on the next video.